# A critical view on inflation

This repository contains a Notebook with inflation and gold price data from Kaggle. In the first step, the goal was to correct the historical price of gold in Euro to the purchasing power of todays money, thus yielding increasing deviations between correted and nominal prices going further in the past and converging prices for today. Afterwards, an additional 3% of "hidden" inflation was added to the "official" numbers from the IMF. Let me ellaborate on this: Around the 90s in the USA as well as in Germany there had been modifications in the methology of determining the CPI (consumer price inflation). Several authors and economists, especially amongst followers of the austrian school of economics, suspect that these modifications lead to an underestimation of the true inflation. Politicians as well as central bankers have an obvious interest in understating the true inflation because it allows them to continue reckless government spending and as a consequence inflation of the money supply. A website which tried to quantify the deviation between official and true inflations is www.shadowstats.com, suggesting that there is an undeestimation anywhere between 2% and 10% depending on the year. Adding 3% to every year therefore seems to be on the conservative side of the critical view. As a consequence we see (in the plot in the notebook or folder "plots"), that the gold price corrrected to todays purchasing power of money (considering also the inofficial inflation), was falling for the first 20 years since the 80s and is only rising since the new century started. Furthermore the historic maximum is not as commonly thought recently, but in the very beginning of the data we are considering here (namely around 1980). Thus suggesting that the gold price, in an environment of more frequently occuring political and economical crises, has still tremondous room for growth, possibly overtaking the historical maximum price anytime soon. 

Additionally, there is a notebook which collects data (stock indices, unemployment rate, CPI and money supply) taken from the St. Louis Feder Reserve Bank via an API. The data was merged into one data set, which is also uploaded in this repositiory. Furthermore I investigated the correlation between the money supply and other quantities.

These project were only the start of a series of projects which will be collected in this repository. The general aim is to collect data from official sources and investigate and analyze it critically. 





